Add: new blog post - czi funding announcement (#305)
pyOpenSci/pyopensci.github.io: _posts/2023-12-29-czi-funds-pyopensci-2024.md

---

## A bright 2024 is ahead for pyOpenSci

We are thrilled to announce that pyOpenSci has received 2 years of funding to cover core operations from the [Chan Zuckerberg Initiative (CZI)](https://chanzuckerberg.com/). These CZI funds will be used to continue critical pyOpenSci work that:

* supports Python open source maintainers in developing the usable and maintainable scientific software the enables open science
* helps scientists navigate a complex Python packaging ecosystem
* diversifies the scientific Python open source community

## Open science builds trust and enables more people to participate

Open and reproducible science builds trust and accelerates research and
discovery. Open science supports scientific research that is both transparent and
reusable. Free and open source software is critical to open science as it ensures that
the analyses of research data are broadly accessible. To build truly open research workflows, scientists need to use free and open source software (FOSS). FOSS removes the barriers that licenses and other fees may create, particularly for undeserved communities.

### Broad inclusion is critical for both open source and open science

> Broad inclusion of individuals in the open source ecosystem which has been found to be [even less diverse then the broader tech community](https://www.wired.com/2017/06/diversity-open-source-even-worse-tech-overall/) is also critical to pyOpenSci's mission. pyOpenSci wants to empower everyone to participate in both the development and use of open source software. This

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Broad inclusion of underrepresented and historically excluded individuals is critical to pyOpenSci's mission. The open source ecosystem has been found to be [even less diverse then the broader tech community], (https://www.wired.com/2017/06/diversity-open-source-even-worse-tech-overall/) and to help remedy this, pyOpenSci empowers everyone to participate in both the development and use of open source software. This
```

empowerment enables open science to reach its full potential.

> ### Open source maintainers need more support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Open source maintainers need support
```

> Despite the importance of open source software and inclusion to fundamental

Reviewer: I'm not entirely clear what we're trying to say here. What's throwing me is the phrase "and inclusion"

Author: i hear you. I think the rewrite goal was to talk about 
1. how open source is important to open science
2. inclusion is important to both 

maybe there is a way to make that more clear? there are papers about the importance of dei in science and team work in general. but thing link of ideas is a bit tricky

Author: ok i implemented a minor fix and just dropped the inclusion as it really didn't make sense there!

open science principles, open source maintainers do not get the support they

> need. Maintainers need both institutional and community support in learning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Maintainers need both institutional and community support in learning
and engaging in open source software development, as well as in maintaining tools and interacting
with the broad user base that uses these tools in support of open science.
```

Author: can you help me understand the intended change here @kierisi so i can apply it?

Reviewer: oh! yes, for some reason it wouldn't let me select more than a single line for review. so what's showing up in green are my suggested changes, but it's not showing up as a diff

Author: oh interesting! maybe we can look at that together to see why :) sometimes the github gui can be a bit quirky!

and engaging in open source software development, maintaining tools and engaging
with the broad user base that may begin to use their tools in support of open science.

## pyOpenSci is pushing for change

> pyOpenSci is pushing for change. We envision a world where:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We envision a world where:
```

> * the scientific Python open source ecosystem is diverse and inclusive,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The scientific Python open source ecosystem is diverse and inclusive.
```

> * individuals developing open software are supported and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Individuals developing open software are supported.
```

> * scientists have the skills needed to both contribute to open source and also develop collaborative open science workflows; these skills have significant overlap.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Scientists have the skills needed to both contribute to open source and also develop collaborative open science workflows; these skills have significant overlap.
```

> ## pyOpenSci is building a supportive and inclusive world through three programs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## pyOpenSci builds a supportive and inclusive world through three programs
```

<figure>
    <a href="/images/pyopensci-pillars-flower.png">
    <img src="/images/pyopensci-pillars-flower.png" style="max-width:100%" alt="A flower petal image with 3 flower petals and a flower center. In each petal there is text. The first says software peer review, the second community partnerships and the third packaging resources and standards. The center circle of the flower says diverse inclusive community.">
    </a>

>     <figcaption> pyOpenSci is supports scientists developing open source software through three programs: 1) peer review of scientific software, 2) Community partnerships and 3) packaging resources and standards. These three programs are supported by a diverse and inclusive community that cares about the open source software that is needed for open science.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <figcaption> pyOpenSci supports scientists developing open source software through three programs: 1) peer review of scientific software, 2) community partnerships and 3) packaging resources and standards. These three programs are supported by a diverse and inclusive community that cares about the open source software that is needed for open science.
```

    </figcaption>
</figure>

The three programs pyOpenSci runs are:

> * [Peer review of scientific Python software](https://www.pyopensci.org/about-peer-review/index.html) - pyOpenSci software peer review process helps scientists find vetted and trusted tools that they need to build reproducible open science workflows. We also are empowering our community with critical open science skills that support contributing to open source software.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Peer review of scientific Python software](https://www.pyopensci.org/about-peer-review/index.html) - The pyOpenSci software peer review process helps scientists find the vetted and trusted tools they need to build reproducible open science workflows. We also empower our community with critical open science skills that support contributing to open source software.
```

> * [Community partnerships with domain-specific scientific Python communities](https://www.pyopensci.org/partners.html). Domain-specific communities  partner with PyOpenSci to leverage our peer review process as a way to track vetted high quality tools. They also support development of Python packaging packaging guidelines in an effort to streamline packaging standard development across the scientific Python ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Community partnerships with domain-specific scientific Python communities](https://www.pyopensci.org/partners.html). Domain-specific communities partner with PyOpenSci to leverage pyOpenSci's peer review process as a way to track vetted, high quality tools. Communities also support the development of Python packaging packaging guidelines in an effort to streamline the development of packaging standards across the scientific Python ecosystem.
```

> * Training and resources to help scientists develop and maintain high-quality, accessible, open source software. Our community developed [Python packaging guide](https://www.pyopensci.org/python-package-guide/) provides resources and tutorials that help scientists both navigate a complex Python packaging ecosystem while also making recommendations for community accepted best practices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Training and resources to help scientists develop and maintain high-quality, accessible, open source software. Our community developed the [Python packaging guide](https://www.pyopensci.org/python-package-guide/), which provides resources and tutorials that help scientists navigate a complex Python packaging ecosystem. The Python packaging guide also makes recommendations for community accepted best practices.
```

## Looking forward to 2024

pyOpenSci is excited to grow a more inclusive and supportive scientific Python community in 2024!

We are always looking for volunteers to support our community programs.

> If you are interested in getting involved with pyOpenSci, you can [learn more here](/get-involved-contact.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are interested in getting involved with pyOpenSci, [learn more here](/get-involved-contact.html).
```
